Personality Traits: I use polysyllabic words that convey the 
impression of erudition. Also, I’ve spent 
so long in the temple that I have little 
experience dealing with people on a 
casual basis

Ideals: Knowledge. The path to power and self improvement is through knowledge

Bonds: The tome I carry with me is the record of 
my life’s work so far, and no vault is secure
enough to keep it safe.

Flaws: I’ll do just about anything to uncover 
historical secrets that would add to 
my research.

Elf
Elves are a people of otherworldly grace, living in the world but not 
entirely part of it. They live in places of ethereal beauty, in the midst 
of ancient forests or in silvery spires glittering with faerie light, where 
soft music drifts through the air and gentle fragrances waft on the 
breeze. Elves love nature and magic, art and artistry, music and poetry.
Elves can live over 700 years. They are more often amused than 
excited, and more likely to be curious than greedy. They tend to remain 
aloof and unfazed by petty happenstance, and they trust in diplomacy 
and compromise to resolve differences before they escalate to violence.
Most elves dwell in small forest villages hidden among the trees. 
Their contact with outsiders is usually limited, though a few elves 
make a good living by trading crafted items for metals, which they have 
no interest in mining.
In the Forgotten Realms, your people are named sun elves. Also 
called gold elves or sunrise elves, sun elves have bronze skin and hair 
of copper, black, or golden blond, and their eyes are golden, silver, or 
black. They are more reclusive than the other branch of high elves, the 
moon elves, but Oghma has called you to live among other peoples, 
rather than in the sanctuaries of your kin.

Elves are considered children until they declare themselves adults, 
sometime after the hundredth birthday. Before this period, they 
are called by child names. On declaring adulthood, an elf selects 
an adult name. Every elf also bears a family name, typically a 
combination of Elvish words. Some elves traveling among other 
races translate their family names into Common.

Child Names: Ara, Bryn, Del, Innil, Lael, Mella, Naeris, Phann, 
Rael, Rinn, Syllin, Vall
Male Adult Names: Adran, Berrian, Carric, Erevan, Galinndan, 
Hadarai, Immeral, Paelias, Quarion, Riardon, Soveliss, Theren, 
Varis
Female Adult Names: Althaea, Bethrynna, Caelynn, Ielenia, 
Leshanna, Meriele, Naivara, Quillathe, Silaqui, Thia, Vadania, 
Valanthe, Xanaphia
Family Names (Common Translations): Amastacia (Starflower), 
Galanodel (Moonwhisper), Liadon (Silverfrond), Meliamne 
(Oakenheel), Siannodel (Moonbrook), Ilphelkiir (Gemblossom)

Wizard
Wizards are supreme magic-users. Drawing on the subtle weave of 
magic that permeates the cosmos, they cast spells of explosive fire, 
arcing lightning, subtle deception, and brute-force mind control. The 
mightiest wizards learn to conjure elementals from other planes of 
existence, glimpse the future, or turn slain foes into zombies.

Background
You have spent your life dedicated to Oghma, all-seeing god of 
knowledge, and spent years learning the lore of the multiverse.

Personal Goal: Reconsecrate the Defiled Altar. Through visions 
delivered in your trances, your god has called you to a new mission. A 
goblin tribe has made its lair in an ancient ruin now called Cragmaw 
Castle, where they have defiled a shrine once sacred to Oghma. Now 
dedicated to the vile goblin god Maglubiyet, the altar is an offense to 
Oghma that must not stand.
You’re sure Oghma has greater things in store for you if you can 
complete this quest. In the meantime, your visions suggest that Sister 
Garaele—a priest of Tymora, the goddess of luck—can aid you in the 
town of Phandalin.

Alignment: Chaotic Good. The pursuit and acquisition of 
knowledge is for the benefit of all. Kingdoms and laws are useful so far 
as they allow knowledge to flourish. Tyrants who seek to suppress and 
control it are the worst villains. You share your knowledge freely, and 
use what you have learned to help where you can