The Dungeon Master (DM) has a special role in the DUNGEONS & DRAGONS game.
The DM is a referee. When it's not clear what ought to happen next, the DM decides how to apply the rules and keep the story going.
The DM is a narrator. The DM sets the pace of the story and presents the various challenges and encounters the players must overcome. The DM is the players' interface to the D&D world, as well as the one who reads (and sometimes also writes) the adventure and describes what happens in response to the clJaracters' actions.
The DM plays monsters. The DM plays the monsters and villains the adventurers battle against, choosing their actions and rolling dice for their attacks. The DM also plays the part of all the other characters the players meet in the course of their adventures, like the prisoner in the goblin lair or the innkeeper in town.
Who should be the DM for your gaming group? Whoever wants to be! The person who has the most drive to pull a group together and start up a game often ends up being the DM by default, but that doesn't have to be the case.
Although the DM controls the monsters and villains - the adventure, the relationship between the players and the DM isn't adversarial. The DM's job is to challenge the characters with interesting encounters and tests, keep me game moving, and apply the rules fairly.
The most important thing to remember about being a good DM is that the rules are a tool to help you have a good time. The rules aren't in charge. You're the DM- you're in charge of the game. Guide the play experience and the use of the rules so that everybody has fun.
Many players of DUNGEONS & DRAGONS find that being the DM is the best part of the game. With the information in this adventure, you'll be prepared to take on that role for your group.

RULES TO GAME BY
As the Dungeon Master, you are the final authority when it comes to rules questions or disputes during the game. Here are some guidelines to help you arbitrate issues as they come up.
When in doubt, make it up! It's better to keep the game moving than to get bogged down in the rules.
It's not a competition. The DM isn't competing against the player characters. You're there to run the monsters, referee the rules, and keep the story moving.
It's a shared story. It's the group's story, so let the players contribute to the outcome through the actions of their characters. DUNGEONS& DRAGONSis about imagination and coming together to tell a story as a group. Let the players participate in the storytelling.
Be consistent. If you decide that a rule works a certain way in one session, make sure it works that way the next time it comes into play.
Make sure everyone is involved. Ensure every character has a chance to shine. If some players are reluctant to speak up, remember to ask them what their characters are doing.
Be fair. Use your powers as Dungeon Master only for good. Treat the rules and the players in a fair and impartial manner.
Pay attention. Make sure you look around the table occasionally to see if the game is going well. If everyone seems to be having fun, relax and keep going. If the fun is waning, it might be time for a break, or you can try to liven things up.

IMPROVISING ABILITY CHECKS
The adventure often tells you what ability checks characters might try in a certain situation and the Difficulty Class (DC) of those checks. Sometimes adventurers try things that the adventure can't possibly anticipate. It's up to you to decide whether their attempts are successful. If it seems like anyone should have an easy time doing it, don't ask for an ability check; just tell the player what happens. Likewise, if there's no way anyone could accomplish the task, just tell the player it doesn't work.
Otherwise, answer these three simple questions:
+ What kind of ability check? How hard is it?
+ What's the result?

Use the descriptions of the ability scores and their associated skills in the rulebook to help you decide what kind of ability check to use. Then determine how hard
the task is so that you can set the DC for the check. The higher the DC, the more difficult the task. The easiest way to set a DC is to decide whether the task's difficulty is easy, moderate, or hard, and use these three DCs:
+ Easy (DC 10). An easy task requires a minimal level of competence or a modicum of luck to accomplish. Moderate (DC 15). A moderate task requires a slightly higher level of competence to accomplish. A character with a combination of natural aptitude and specialized training can accomplish a moderate task more often than not.
+ Hard (DC 20). Hard tasks include any effort that is beyond the capabilities of most people without aid or exceptional ability. Even with aptitude and training, a character needs some amount of luck - or a lot of specialized training - to pull off a hard task.

The outcome of a successful check is usually easy to determine: the character succeeds at whatever he or she set out to accomplish, within reason. It's usually equally easy to figure out what happens when a character fails a check: the character simply doesn't succeed.